# ISEA: Intelligent Security Event Analyzer
The world witnessed a multitude of advancements in the field of artificial intelligence in the past few years. Consequently, it is now possible to eliminate or minimize human error by utilizing assistive services that could replace current technologies. In our work we focused on those relating to security and health. We propose a system capable of analyzing video feed and detecting anomalous events that may occur bringing them to the attention of the appropriate personnel in real time. Establishments that fill up daily with crowds of people such as stations and airports can greatly benefit from our system. We explored the current state-of-the-art approaches to detect events of fall, violence & fights, guns & arms and abandoned objects. We also adopted the necessary metrics to quantify the performance of those approaches after implementing them and training those models on appropriate datasets. While working on those components we identified their limitations which we tried to overcome whenever possible. We were sure to look for similar systems and compare our features and performance with those existing services. As a result, we provide an optimized system for detection that performs well on modest configurations. The system consists of multiple components each of which was developed by implementing multiple algorithms and choosing the most performant of which based on our testing. Additionally, we shot a video dataset to verify the capability of our system in real world scenarios. The final product is a web-based application that receives a live video feed and detects security events in real time and upon detection, the system alerts all concerned parties. The system is easy-to-use and accomplishes the desired functional and non-functional requirements.
